#Dreaming is defined as a vivid, complex, hallucinatory experience, while asleep, generally accepted as real by the dreamer, and having a mostly logical progression in time.
#Evidence suggests that the transfer of memory from short-term to long-term storage may diminish or cease during sleep, which is why people have trouble recalling their dreams.
#The synaptic homeostasis hypothesis suggests that the universal purpose of sleep is to restore the brain to a state where we can adapt when we are awake, thereby allowing more neuronal plasticity.
#Perception of the real world is dramatically shut down at the onset of sleep, and shifted to the perception of an internal world when we enter a REM period (when we dream).
#Sigmund Freud thought that the manifest content of dreaming was actively influenced and determined by the activity of the unconscious mind.
#Hypnagogic imagery is the vivid imagery associated with the onset of sleep.
#Fragmentary images which occur in non-REM sleep are no longer considered dreams.
#Dreaming is more detailed and complete than simple hypnotic hallucinations.
#The purpose of dreaming is controversial and could have a variety of explanations.
#The imperfection of dream recall is the major obstacle to the scientific study of dreams.
#The relationship of mental and physical activities during dreaming is called the psychophysiology of dreaming.
#In one person’s lifetime, there is an average of a quarter million dreams.
#Lucid dreaming is dreaming while knowing that we are dreaming.
#Lucid dreamers know they are asleep, can remember to perform previously agreed upon actions, and can signal to the waking world, making an entirely new approach to dream research possible.
#A dreamer is only prevented from rising out of his bed and acting out his dream by active motor atonia of REM.
#The occasionally recalled dream is only one of 10 or 20 more dream stories that take place every night.
#Dream recall can be impaired by a distraction or interference upon awaking.
#Dreams are in color; however, this fact is commonly confused because the memory for color fades more rapidly than the memory for objects, spacial configuration and named items.
#Dream content research suggests that dreams are first and foremost an embodiment of thoughts through dramatization of life concerns and interests.
#The waking experiences of a dreamer and chance external events that occur during REM periods can occasionally influence the content of a dream.