#The strength of your tendency to fall asleep is an indication of the size of your underlying sleep debt.
#Being able to fall asleep anywhere at anytime means you probably have a significant sleep debt.  You should not be able to fall asleep so easily.
#As we get older, the need for sleep does not change.  It is the ability to sleep that changes.
#Alcohol and other sedative drugs are greatly potentate by a sizable sleep debt.
#A person can remain alert at a party in the evening after consuming an alcoholic beverage, but can almost instantaneously become dangerously sleepy while driving home if this is when the biological clock stops opposing the alcohol sleep drive.
#A large sleep debt cannot simply be eliminated by one extended sleep period.
#There is no evidence whatsoever that there is a true phenomenon of getting “too much sleep.”  However, when their sleep debt is near zero, a person cannot sleep more than the daily requirement.
#The goal of good sleep hygiene is to foster refreshing deep, continuous sleep at night and optimal daytime alertness.
#When possible, the bedroom should be used primarily for sleeping because the more the bedroom and bed are used for other activities, the weaker the association will be between the bedroom and sleep.
#For good sleep hygiene, if sleepiness becomes overwhelming, limit naps to 30 minutes or less and take them before 3 PM.
#Exercise, proper diet, and regular timing of meals promotes optimal sleep and optimal alertness.
#Extreme sleepiness can, in effect, be likened to sleep since an extremely sleepy person is essentially a walking zombie.
#There is a necessary amount of sleep for each individual and any amount less than this accumulates as a sleep debt.
#Sleep debt can only be reduced by extra sleep.
#The amount of sleep we need is almost always more than we think, and assessing this need si obscured by external and internal stimulation.
#The amount of sleep needed may stay the same or even increase in the second decade of life over the amount needed in childhood.  It may then decrease very slowly, if at all, as the years go by.
#Taking a nap is often a very good strategy to avoid a disastrous sleep episode.
#Breaks and coffee provide only temporary relief, and over a longer period increase the danger than an unintended sleep episode will occur.
#Unintended or unwanted sleep episodes, in addition to severe sleep deprivation, amy occasionally be due to a specific sleep disorder such as obstructive sleep apnea or severe insomnia.
#“Drowsiness is red alert!” More than anything else, feeling drowsy in a situation which has any hazard at all if an unintended sleep episode or error of inattention occurs, should be a very strong warming signal to get out of harm’s way.
